(Comp.sys.handhelds) Option: 
Item: 3368 by catto at vivaldi.ecn.purdue.edu
Author: [Erin S Catto]
  Subj: Joust v2.2, a Super-CHIP video game
  Date: Wed Jun 05 1991

Joust v2.2
==========

Okay, its time for a Joust revision.  The main difference is the sprite
bitmaps.  Although I didn't use the bit maps given to me by Steve VanDevender,
I thank him for his insights into the game.  It's kind of funny the way this
game developed.  I wasn't really sure of the details of the game.  I had to go
on memory.  Gosh, I think Joust was introduced in something like 1981 or '82.
I do remember dumping a couple pounds of quarters into that game.  Joust had
pretty good graphics in its day, but I suppose Game Boy graphics can beat it
now (not considering color).

Do try this version (if you liked the others at all).  The new bitmaps have
more of the "Joust Spirit".

Note: Although the player and rival sprites are definitely different, it's
      easy to get them mixed up and die quickly.  I use the rival soldier's
      blank ankle to distinguish the sprites.

The Game
========

                      /   =   right
                      9   =   left
                      0   =   up, start game, and replay

                      points:     1 per egg
                                  8 extra for clearing the bonus round
                                  bonus player for winning bonus round

Beware - due to the new bitmaps the bonus round is tougher, but do-able.
         Call it a bug or call it a challenge.


                       Have More Fun,

                                         Zoom
                                         catto@ecn.purdue.edu

P.S.  Sorry no programming notes; I'm working on a new game which uses the
      scrolling features of S-Chip v1.1 (my selfish priorities)
      I will answer questions via e-mail.

Do-able Chip games:      Defender, Berzerk (easy, no collisions allowed)
                         Birds-eye view Car Racing, Scramble, Vanguard,
                         Asteroids (tricky), Donkey Kong, Frogger, Pinball


-To run Joust v2.2 you must have S-Chip v1.0 or v1.1.  Download it, recall the
result to the stack.  Execute SCHIP.  Press 0 to start.

----------
  Resp: 1 of 1 by _falco at hpcvbbs.UUCP
Author: [Andrey Dolgachev]
  Date: Wed Jun 05 1991

Erin,

Great work on Joust but I have a couple of comments.  One bug I've noticed is
that if you kill a buzzard right over one of the ledges, the egg goes through
the ledge.  Otherwise, I haven't noticed any problems and I think its a great
game.  Now how about that hand sticking out of the lava?  Regarding future CHIP
games, I would love to start writing some CHIP programs, since I see a lot more
potential in CHIP than in RPL or even ML.

    Keep up the good work,
           --Falco

----------
  Resp: 1 of 1 by catto at author.ecn.purdue.edu
Author: [Erin S Catto]
  Date: Sat Jun 08 1991

Dan Stephenson writes:

>BUGS:
>
>The eggs sometimes fall through a level.
>The bouncing eggs sometimes forget to fall when they go past a ledge.
>The bonus round IS goofy. Sometimes I whiz right THROUGH eggs!

For my version of Joust I decided to let the eggs fall thru the ledge if the
rival jouster is right above the ledge.  Why?  One, it was easier this way, and
two, it makes the game more challenging because you have to chase the egg (the
only item worth points).

To save on space I used the same routine that keeps the jousters on the ledge
to make the eggs bounce.  Now the jousters are wider than the eggs but S-CHIP
doesn't know that; so when an egg bounces off the left edge of a platform it
appears to make one bounce in mid-air.  I could fix this but I don't think it
impacts the game enough to merit the effort.

On the bonus round; yes, due to the new bitmaps of v2.2 the bonus round isn't
quite right.  I think I will fix this, but until then you can pick up the eggs
by moving across them coming from the left.

Dan also mentioned a number of features that would help my Joust more fully
emulate the original Joust.  However, having twenty revisions to this game does
not interest me.  Especially now since I'm working on another S-CHIP game which
will feature scrolling and animation.  It will be an action/adventure game with
changing perspectives.  The new scrolling features of S-CHIP v1.1 are
incredible!  They add so much potential to game writing.


                                                   Zoom
                                                   catto@ecn.purdue.edu
